adds envio as supported data indexer (#69)
kkrt-labs/kakarot-docs: docs/ecosystem/data-indexers/envio.md

---
title: Envio
sidebar_position: 3
---

Envio is a modern, multi-chain EVM blockchain indexing framework speed-optimized for querying real-time and historical data.

### Understanding Envio

#### Envio HyperIndex

> Envio [HyperIndex](https://docs.envio.dev/docs/overview) is a feature-rich indexing solution that provides Kakarot ZK-EVM projects with a seamless and efficient way to index and aggregate real-time or historical blockchain data. The indexed data is easily accessible through custom GraphQL queries, giving developers the flexibility and power to retrieve specific information for their blockchain application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Envio [HyperIndex](https://docs.envio.dev/docs/overview) is a feature-rich indexing solution that provides Kakarot Starknet projects with a seamless and efficient way to index and aggregate real-time or historical blockchain data. The indexed data is easily accessible through custom GraphQL queries, giving developers the flexibility and power to retrieve specific information for their blockchain application.
```

> Envio offers native support for Kakarot ZK-EVM networks and has been designed to support high-throughput blockchain applications that rely on real-time data for their business requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Envio offers native support for Kakarot Starknet networks and has been designed to support high-throughput blockchain applications that rely on real-time data for their business requirements.
```

Designed to optimize the developer experience, Envio offers automatic code generation, flexible language support, quickstart templates, and a reliable cost-effective [hosted service](https://docs.envio.dev/docs/hosted-service). Indexers on Envio can be written in JavaScript, TypeScript, or ReScript.

#### Envio HyperSync

> Envio [HyperSync](https://docs.envio.dev/docs/overview-hypersync) is adding support on Kakarot ZK-EVM testnet sepolia and to-be mainnet. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Envio [HyperSync](https://docs.envio.dev/docs/overview-hypersync) is adding support on Kakarot Starknet Sepolia and to-be Kakarot Starknet mainnet. 
```

> HyperSync is a real-time data query layer for Kakarot ZK-EVM, providing APIs that bypass traditional JSON-RPC for up to 1000x faster syncing of historical data. HyperSync is used by default in Envio's indexing framework (HyperIndex), with RPC being optional for data retrieval. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HyperSync is a real-time data query layer for Kakarot Starknet, providing APIs that bypass traditional JSON-RPC for up to 1000x faster syncing of historical data. HyperSync is used by default in Envio's indexing framework (HyperIndex), with RPC being optional for data retrieval. 
```

> Using HyperSync, Kakarot ZK-EVM projects do not need to worry about RPC URLs, rate-limiting, or managing their infrastructure - and can easily sync large datasets in a few minutes, something that would usually take hours or days using traditional indexing solutions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using HyperSync, Kakarot Starknet projects do not need to worry about RPC URLs, rate-limiting, or managing their infrastructure - and can easily sync large datasets in a few minutes, something that would usually take hours or days using traditional indexing solutions. 
```
